Getting and Cleaning Data - README
==================================
This file describes how run_analysis.R script works. Follow the procedure described below to run the script on the data and generate a tidy data set.

* Download the original data from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip, unzip it and rename the folder to "data".
* The folder "data", the run_analysis.R script, and the feature_extract.R scripts should be all in the current working directory.
* Use source("run_analysis.R") command in RStudio to run the script.
* There will be two data files generated in the current working directory:
  - merged_data.txt: it contains activity, subject, only the mean() and std() measrements.
  - tidy_data.txt: it contains the final tidy data in the long format with the dimension 11881*8.
* To read the data, use data <- read.table("tidy_data.txt") in RStudio.

Note on the tidy data format
----------------------------
According Hadley Wickham's paper on tidy data[^1], each variable in the data forms a column and each observation forms a row. However, the actual definition of observation and variable depends on the context and the analysis.

For my analysis I have defined an observation as[^2]

> some statistics about a feature generated by a sensor due to a source in one of the axis 
> with or without jerk and/or magnitude in either time domain or frequency domain 
> for a subject doing an activity.

As such, in the generated tidy data each observation has the following variables (columns):

1. __subject__: 1..30 a number representing the subject
2. __activity__: The activity (out of 6 possible activities) the subject was performing
3. __domain__: Time, Frequency
4. __source__: Body, Gravity
5. __sensor__: Acceleration, Gyroscopic
6. __jerk__: Yes, No
7. __magnitude__: Yes, No
8. __statistics__: Mean, Standard Deviation
9. __axis__: X, Y, Z
10. __mean__: Mean value of such reading accross all time/frequency

Since we are required to get the mean value of every features for each activity and each subject, and there are 66 features, 6 activities in total and 30 subjects in total, we have 11881 rows including the header. Also, we have 10 columns as described above. The tidy data format is sometimes referred to as tall/long tidy data as opposed to wide tidy data and it has been argued in the coursera project forum about validity of both these formats[^3]. 

[^1]: http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf
[^2]: https://class.coursera.org/getdata-004/forum/thread?thread_id=217
[^3]: https://class.coursera.org/getdata-004/forum/thread?thread_id=262